                                  Licenses

                       Compiled by The XFree86 Project

                              22 February 2004

1.  Introduction

XFree86[tm] code without an explicit copyright or not explicitly marked as
being in the public domain is covered by the XFree86 1.0 copyright/license as
shown below (section 5.11, page 1).  Portions of code are covered by other
licenses/copyrights, as shown in subsequent sections.  In all cases, see
individual source files for specific license details, copyright owner infor-
mation, and copyright dates.

2.  XFree86 Project Licensing Policy

The XFree86 Project's basic licensing philosophy has always been summed up as
"You can do what you like with the code except claim you wrote it."
Expressed more formally, it means that the licenses acceptable for code that
makes up XFree86 must meet the following conditions:

   o The code must be redistributable by others in either source or binary
     form.

   o Others must be permitted to modify the code, and to distribute modified
     code or derived code without being required to pay a licensing fee or
     other financial consideration to the copyright holder.

   o Others must be permitted to distribute binary-only forms of the code if
     they which to do so.

A range of Open Source and Free Software licenses meet these conditions.  The
licenses in this document are examples of acceptable licenses.  Contributors
to XFree86 are encouraged to choose the license type that best suits them.
If you have any questions about whether a specific license fits in with the
XFree86 licensing policy, please contact us.

3.  License Classifications

3.1  Open Source

With one possible exception, we believe that all of the code in this release
(4.4.0) of XFree86 meet the requirements of the Open Source Definition
<URL:http://opensource.org/docs/definition.php>, as maintained by the Open
Source Initiative (OSI) <URL:http://opensource.org/>.

The one exception is a file containing font decompression code
(xc/lib/font/fontfile/decompress.c) which contains a licence that does not
explicitly give permission to make modifications.  This file has been part of
the X11 sample implementation since at least X11R5, and has been present in
all versions of XFree86.

3.2  Free Software

We believe that most of the code in this release (4.4.0) of XFree86 meets the
requirements of the Free Software definition <URL:http://www.fsf.org/philoso-
phy/free-sw.html> as defined by the Free Software Foundation (FSF)
<URL:http://www.fsf.org/>.

The exceptions, aside from the font decompression code mentioned in the pre-
vious section, are the GLX extension and CID font code that are covered by
the SGI Free Software License B, version 1.1 (section 9., page 1).

3.3  GPL-compatible

The client-side X libraries distributed with this release (4.4.0), with the
exception of the GL, GLU, and GLw libraries, carry a subset of the acceptable
licenses that satisfy an additional condition: they are GPL-compatible.  The
GL, GLU, and GLw libraries contain code covered by the SGI Free Software
License B, version 1.1 (section 9., page 1), which is not GPL-compatible.

Other portions of XFree86, including the X servers, may include code with
licenses that are not GPL-compatible.  Example of such licenses include some
of the BSD-style licenses (section 6.4, page 1), the FreeType License (sec-
tion 12., page 1), the SGI licenses (section 9., page 1) and the XFree86
License version 1.1 (section 4., page 1).

4.  XFree86 License (version 1.1)

The text of the XFree86 1.1 license is included below.  A FAQ for this
licence can be found at the XFree86 web site
<URL:http://www.xfree86.org/legal/licenses.html>

Copyright (C) 1994-2004 The XFree86 Project, Inc.

All rights reserved.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is fur-
nished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

1.  Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions, and the following disclaimer.

2.  Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
and/or other materials provided with the distribution, and in the same place
and form as other copyright, license and disclaimer information.

3.  The end-user documentation included with the redistribution, if any, must
include the following acknowledgment: "This product includes software devel-
oped by The XFree86 Project, Inc (http://www.xfree86.org/) and its contribu-
tors", in the same place and form as other third-party acknowledgments.
Alternately, this acknowledgment may appear in the software itself, in the
same form and location as other such third-party acknowledgments.

4.  Except as contained in this notice, the name of The XFree86 Project, Inc
shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or
other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization from The
XFree86 Project, Inc.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES,
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
XFREE86 PROJECT, INC OR ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA,
OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLI-
GENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN
IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

5.  X/MIT Licenses

Some forms of the X/MIT licenses require that the copyright and license
notices be reproduced in supporting documentation.  Copyright notices are
included here, grouped with the applicable license notices.

5.1  MIT

This is the form of the MIT licence that was used with X11R5.  A lot of con-
tributors to XFree86 have adopted this license.

Copyright (C) <date> <Copyright Holder>

Copyright (C) 1984-1989, 1994 Adobe Systems Incorporated.

Copyright (C) 2003 Eric Anholt

Copyright (C) 2002 Apple Computer, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Copyright (C) 1988 AT&T.  All Rights Reserved.

Copyright (C) 1992 by Robert Baron

Copyright (C) 1996-1998 by David Bateman <dbateman@ee.uts.edu.au>

Copyright (C) 1988 Bitstream, Inc., Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA

Copyright (C) 2001 by Stephen Blackheath

Copyright (C) 1993 by Jon Block <block@frc.com>

Copyright (C) 2000 Compaq Computer Corporation, Inc.

Copyright (C) 1998 by Concurrent Computer Corporation

Copyright (C) 1994-2000 by Robin Cutshaw

Copyright (C) 1992, 1993, 2002 by David Dawes

Copyright (C) 2000 by Egbert Eich

Copyright (C) 2002 by Paul Elliott

Copyright (C) 1987-1994 by Digital Equipment Corporation

Copyright (C) 1988 by Evans & Sutherland Computer Corporation. All Rights
Reserved

Copyright (C) 1992, 1993, 1994 by FUJITSU LIMITED

Copyright (C) 2003 by Bryan W. Headley.

Copyright (C) 2000 by Richard A. Hecker, California, United States

Copyright (C) 2002 Hewlett Packard Company, Inc.

Copyright (C) 1997 Matthieu Herrb

Copyright (C) 2000 Christian Herzog

Copyright (C) 1999 by David Holland

Copyright (C) 1992-2004 by Alan Hourihane

Copyright (C) 2000 Roland Jansen

Copyright (C) 2001 by J. Kean Johnston

Copyright (C) 2000, 2001 Ani Joshi

Copyright (C) 2000 by Rainer Keller

Copyright (C) 1999-2003 by Peter Kunzmann, Citron GmbH, Germany.

Copyright (C) 1994 through 2004 by Marc Aurele La France (TSI @ UQV),
tsi@xfree86.org

Copyright (C) 1996 by Steven Lang

Copyright (C) 1995, 1999 by Patrick Lecoanet, France.

Copyright (C) 2001 by Patrick LERDA

Copyright (C) 2000 Tuomas J. Lukka

Copyright (C) 2000-2001 by Sven Luther <luther@dpt-info.u-strasbg.fr>

Copyright (C) 2002, 2003 Torrey T. Lyons. All Rights Reserved.

Copyright (C) 1996, 1998 by Sebastien Marineau

Copyright (C) 1984-1989, 1991, 1993 Massachusetts Institute of Technology

Copyright (C) 1993 by David McCullough

Copyright (C) 1995-1998 Metro Link, Inc.

Copyright (C) MontaVista Software Inc.

Copyright (C) 1993, 1996, 1999 by Thomas Mueller

Copyright (C) 1992 by Rich Murphey

Copyright (C) 1993, 1994 NCR Corporation - Dayton, Ohio, USA

Copyright (C) 1989-1995 Network Computing Devices;

Copyright (C) 1990, 1991 by Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corporation

Copyright (C) 1990, 1991 by NTT Software Corporation

Copyright (C) 1998 by Number Nine Visual Technology, Inc.

Copyright (C) 1990, 1991 by OMRON Corporation

Copyright (C) 1991 by the Open Software Foundation

Copyright (C) 1998-2002 Keith Packard

Copyright (C) 1997 Takis Psarogiannakopoulos, Cambridge, UK

Copyright (C) 1993 Quarterdeck Office Systems

Copyright (C) 2002 by Red Hat Inc.

Copyright (C) 1990,91 by Thomas Roell, Dinkelscherben, Germany.

Copyright (C) 1989 Dale Schumacher

Copyright (C) 1993-1997 by Silicon Graphics Computer Systems, Inc.

Copyright (C) 2002 Manish Singh

Copyright (C) 1993, 1994 by Sony Corporation

Copyright (C) 1988 SRI

Copyright (C) 1987, 1988, 1991, 1992, 2000 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All
Rights Reserved.

Copyright (C) 1999, 2000 SuSE, Inc.

Copyright (C) 2002 by SuSE Linux AG

Copyright (C) 1993-2004 by The XFree86 Project, Inc.

Copyright (C) 1999-2001 by Thomas Thanner, Citron GmbH, Germany.

Copyright (C) 1992, 1993 by TOSHIBA Corp.

Copyright (C) 1992 by Jim Tsillas

Copyright (C) 1997, 1998 by UCHIYAMA Yasushi

Copyright (C) 1990, 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Copyright (C) 1994, 1996 by Holger Veit

Copyright (C) 1992 Vrije Universiteit, The Netherlands

Copyright (C) 1993 by David Wexelblat

Copyright (C) 2001-2004 Thomas Winischhofer, Vienna, Austria.

Copyright (C) 1993 by Thomas Wolfram, Berlin, Germany.

Copyright (C) 1996 X Consortium, Inc.

Copyright (C) 1998 by Kazutaka YOKOTA

Copyright (C) 1992 by Orest Zborowski

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its docu-
mentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that
the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright
notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation, and
that the name of the copyright holders not be used in advertising or public-
ity pertaining to distribution of the software without specific, written
prior permission.  The copyright holders makes no representations about the
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.

THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE,
INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT
SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS  BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSE-
QUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA
OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS
ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS
SOFTWARE.

5.2  The Open Group

This is the license that The Open Group applied after the post X11R6.4
license restoration.

Copyright (C) 1991, 1996 Digital Equipment Corp.

Copyright (C) 1996 Fujitsu Limited

Copyright (C) 1996 Hewlett-Packard Company

Copyright (C) 1996 Hitachi, Ltd.

Copyright (C) 1996 International Business Machines Corp.

Copyright (C) 1990, Network Computing Devices

Copyright (C) 1996 Novell, Inc.

Copyright (C) 1987, 1996, 2002 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.

Copyright (C) 1990, Tektronix Inc.

Copyright (C) 1985-1998 The Open Group

Copyright (C) 2000  The XFree86 Project, Inc.

Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and its
documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright
notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation.

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FIT-
NESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR
IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

Except as contained in this notice, the name of copyright holders shall not
be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other deal-
ings in this Software without prior written authorization from the copyright
holders.

5.3  X Consortium

This is an intermediate form of the X Consortium license, and is essentially
the same as the XFree86 1.0 license.

Copyright (C) <date> X Consortium

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is fur-
nished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FIT-
NESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X
CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN
ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION
WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

Except as contained in this notice, the name of the X Consortium shall not be
used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other dealings
in this Software without prior written authorization from the X Consortium.

X Window System is a trademark of X Consortium, Inc.

5.4  Nokia

Copyright (C) 2000, 2001 - Nokia Home Communications

Copyright (C) 1998, 1999 - The XFree86 Project Inc.

Copyright (C) 2000 VA Linux Systems, Inc.

All rights reserved.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, and/or sell copies of the
Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so,
provided that the above copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear
in all copies of the Software and that both the above copyright notice(s) and
this permission notice appear in supporting documentation.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FIT-
NESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. IN
NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR HOLDERS INCLUDED IN THIS NOTICE BE
LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY SPECIAL INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR
ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.

Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder shall not
be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other deal-
ings in this Software without prior written authorization of the copyright
holder.

5.5  Tektronix, Inc

Code and supporting documentation (c) Copyright 1990 1991 Tektronix, Inc.

All Rights Reserved

This file is a component of an X Window System-specific implementation of
Xcms based on the TekColor Color Management System.  Permission is hereby
granted to use, copy, modify, sell, and otherwise distribute this software
and its documentation for any purpose and without fee, provided that this
copyright, permission, and disclaimer notice is reproduced in all copies of
this software and in supporting documentation.  TekColor is a trademark of
Tektronix, Inc.

Tektronix makes no representation about the suitability of this software for
any purpose.  It is provided "as is" and with all faults.

TEKTRONIX DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES APPLICABLE TO THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
IN NO EVENT SHALL TEKTRONIX BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUEN-
TIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE, OR OTHER TORTIOUS
ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR THE PERFORMANCE OF
THIS SOFTWARE.

5.6  Digital Equipment Corporation (1)

Copyright (C) 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 by Digital Equipment Corporation, May-
nard, Massachusetts

Copyright (C) 1998, 1989 by Hewlett-Packard Company, Palo Alto, California.

Copyright (C) 1990, 1991 Network Computing Devices

Copyright (C) 1993 by Sun Microsystems, Inc. Mountain View, CA.

Copyright (C) 1988 by Wyse Technology, Inc., San Jose, Ca

All Rights Reserved

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its docu-
mentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that
the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright
notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation, and
that the name of the copyright holders not be used in advertising or public-
ity pertaining to distribution of the software without specific, written
prior permission.

THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE,
INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT
SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUEN-
TIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR
PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS
ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS
SOFTWARE.

5.7  IBM

Copyright International Business Machines,Corp. 1991

All Rights Reserved

License to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its documenta-
tion for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that
licensee provides a license to IBM, Corp. to use, copy, modify, and dis-
tribute derivative works and their documentation for any purpose and without
fee, that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documenta-
tion, and that the name of IBM not be used in advertising or publicity per-
taining to distribution of the software without specific, written prior per-
mission.

IBM PROVIDES THIS SOFTWARE "AS IS", WITHOUT ANY WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND,
EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY IMPLIED WAR-
RANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND NONIN-
FRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS.  THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PER-
FORMANCE OF THE SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ANY DUTY TO SUPPORT OR MAINTAIN, BELONGS
TO THE LICENSEE.  SHOULD ANY PORTION OF THE SOFTWARE PROVE DEFECTIVE, THE
LICENSEE (NOT IBM) ASSUMES THE ENTIRE COST OF ALL SERVICING, REPAIR AND COR-
RECTION.  IN NO EVENT SHALL IBM BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSE-
QUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA
OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS
ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS
SOFTWARE.

5.8  Adobe

(c) Copyright 1989-1994 Adobe Systems Incorporated.

All rights reserved.

Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sublicense this software and
its documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided
that the above copyright notices appear in all copies and that both those
copyright notices and this permission notice appear in supporting documenta-
tion and that the name of Adobe Systems Incorporated not be used in advertis-
ing or publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without specific,
written prior permission.  No trademark license to use the Adobe trademarks
is hereby granted.  If the Adobe trademark "Display PostScript"(tm) is used
to describe this software, its functionality or for any other purpose, such
use shall be limited to a statement that this software works in conjunction
with the Display PostScript system.  Proper trademark attribution to reflect
Adobe's ownership of the trademark shall be given whenever any such reference
to the Display PostScript system is made.

ADOBE MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS ABOUT THE SUITABILITY OF THE SOFTWARE FOR ANY
PURPOSE.  IT IS PROVIDED "AS IS" WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTY.  ADOBE
DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NON-
INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL ADOBE BE LIABLE TO YOU
OR ANY OTHER PARTY FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
DAMAGES WHATSOEVER WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE, STRICT LIA-
BILITY OR ANY OTHER ACTION ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR
PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.  ADOBE WILL NOT PROVIDE ANY TRAINING OR OTHER
SUPPORT FOR THE SOFTWARE.

Adobe, PostScript, and Display PostScript are trademarks of Adobe Systems
Incorporated which may be registered in certain jurisdictions

5.9  Silicon Graphics, Inc.

(c) Copyright 1993, Silicon Graphics, Inc.

ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any purpose
and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright notice
appear in all copies and that both the copyright notice and this permission
notice appear in supporting documentation, and that the name of Silicon
Graphics, Inc. not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to distri-
bution of the software without specific, written prior permission.

THE MATERIAL EMBODIED ON THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED TO YOU "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT
WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMI-
TATION, ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
IN NO EVENT SHALL SILICON GRAPHICS, INC.  BE LIABLE TO YOU OR ANYONE ELSE FOR
ANY DIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY
KIND, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, LOSS OF
PROFIT, LOSS OF USE, SAVINGS OR REVENUE, OR THE CLAIMS OF THIRD PARTIES,
WHETHER OR NOT SILICON GRAPHICS, INC.  HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUCH LOSS, HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR
IN CONNECTION WITH THE POSSESSION, USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.

5.10  Digital Equipment Corporation (2)

Copyright 1987-1993 Digital Equipment Corporation, Maynard, Massachusetts

All Rights Reserved.

THE INFORMATION IN THIS SOFTWARE IS SUBJECT TO CHANGE WITHOUT NOTICE AND
SHOULD NOT BE CONSTRUED AS A COMMITMENT BY DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORPORATION.
DIGITAL MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS ABOUT THE SUITABILITY OF THIS SOFTWARE FOR
ANY PURPOSE.  IT IS SUPPLIED "AS IS" WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTY.

IF THE SOFTWARE IS MODIFIED IN A MANNER CREATING DERIVATIVE COPYRIGHT RIGHTS,
APPROPRIATE LEGENDS MAY BE PLACED ON THE DERIVATIVE WORK IN ADDITION TO THAT
SET FORTH ABOVE.

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its docu-
mentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that
the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright
notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation, and
that the name of Digital Equipment Corporation not be used in advertising or
publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without specific, writ-
ten prior permission.

5.11  XFree86 License (version 1.0)

Copyright (C) 1994-2004 The XFree86 Project, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is fur-
nished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FIT-
NESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
XFREE86 PROJECT BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER
IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CON-
NECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

Except as contained in this notice, the name of the XFree86 Project shall not
be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other deal-
ings in this Software without prior written authorization from the XFree86
Project.

6.  Berkeley-style Licenses

The Berkeley-style licenses are similar to the X/MIT-style licenses, except
that they may include conditions requiring copies of the licenses and copy-
right notices accompany binary distributions, and in some cases that specific
attributions accompany binary distributions and/or are included with end user
documentation and/or advertising material.

6.1  3-Clause BSD License (the revised BSD license)

Copyright (C) 2001, Andy Ritger aritger@nvidia.com.

Copyright (C) 1999,2000 by Eric Sunshine <sunshine@sunshineco.com>

Copyright (C) Theodore Ts'o, 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999.

Copyright (C) 2001-2004 Thomas Winischhofer

All Rights Reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modifica-
tion, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

  1.  Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
      this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

  2.  Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
      documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

  3.  The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
      derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MER-
CHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO
EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPE-
CIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS;
OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTH-
ERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

6.2  2-Clause BSD License

Copyright (c) 1999 Lennart Augustsson <augustss@netbsd.org>

Copyright (c) 1999 Chris Costello

Copyright (c) 1995,1999 Theo de Raadt.

Copyright (c) 2001-2002 Damien Miller.

Copyright (c) 1994 Paul Vojta.

All Rights Reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modifica-
tion, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

  1.  Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
      this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

  2.  Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
      documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND ANY
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DIS-
CLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND
ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

6.3  Original 4-clause BSD license (UCB)

Copyright (c) 1993 The Regents of the University of California.

All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modifica-
tion, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

  1.  Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
      this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

  2.  Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
      documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

  3.  All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
      must display the following acknowledgement: This product includes soft-
      ware developed by the University of California, Berkeley and its con-
      tributors.

  4.  Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
      may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
      without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND ANY
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DIS-
CLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND
ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

6.4  UCB/LBL

In addition to the standard 4-clause BSD License, this one carries the fol-
lowing statements:

This software was developed by the Computer Systems Engineering group at
Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory under DARPA contract BG 91-66 and contributed to
Berkeley.

All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software must
display the following acknowledgement: This product includes software devel-
oped by the University of California, Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory.

6.5  Christopher G. Demetriou.

Copyright (c) 1993, 1994 Christopher G. Demetriou

All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modifica-
tion, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

  1.  Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
      this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

  2.  Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
      documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

  3.  All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
      must display the following acknowledgement: This product includes soft-
      ware developed by Christopher G. Demetriou.

  4.  The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
      derived from this software without specific prior written permission

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MER-
CHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO
EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPE-
CIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS;
OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTH-
ERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

6.6  The NetBSD Foundation, Inc.

Copyright (c) 2003 The NetBSD Foundation, Inc.  All rights reserved.

This code is derived from software contributed to The NetBSD Foundation by
Ben Collver <collver1@attbi.com>

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modifica-
tion, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

  1.   Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
      this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

  2.   Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
      documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

  3.   All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
      must display the following acknowledgement: This product includes soft-
      ware developed by the NetBSD Foundation, Inc. and its contributors.

  4.   Neither the name of The NetBSD Foundation nor the names of its con-
      tributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
      software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE NETBSD FOUNDATION, INC. AND CONTRIBUTORS
``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE FOUNDATION OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSE-
QUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE
GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT
OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAM-
AGE.

6.7  X-Oz Technologies

Copyright 2003 by David H. Dawes.

Copyright 2003 by X-Oz Technologies.

All rights reserved.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is fur-
nished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  1.  Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
      this list of conditions, and the following disclaimer.

  2.  Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
      documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

  3.  The end-user documentation included with the redistribution, if any,
      must include the following acknowledgment: "This product includes soft-
      ware developed by X-Oz Technologies (http://www.x-oz.com/)."  Alter-
      nately, this acknowledgment may appear in the software itself, if and
      wherever such third-party acknowledgments normally appear.

  4.  Except as contained in this notice, the name of X-Oz Technologies shall
      not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or
      other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
      from X-Oz Technologies.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES,
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL X-OZ
TECHNOLOGIES OR ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDEN-
TAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROF-
ITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTH-
ERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

6.8  X-TrueType Server Project, After X-TT Project, and contributors.

Copyright (c) 1998 X-TrueType Server Project, All rights reserved.

Copyright (c) 2003 After X-TT Project, All rights reserved.

Contributors include:

Copyright (c) 1998 Takuya SHIOZAKI, All Rights reserved.

Copyright (c) 1998-1999 Shunsuke Akiyama <akiyama@jp.FreeBSD.org>.  All
rights reserved.

Copyright (c) 1998,1999 Pablo Saratxaga <srtxg@chanae.alphanet.ch>

Copyright (c) 1998 Go Watanabe, All rights reserved.

Copyright (c) 2001 Roger So, All rights reserved.

Copyright (c) 1998,1999 Chen Xiangyang, All Rights reserved.

Copyright (c) 1997 Jyunji Takagi, All rights reserved.

Copyright (c) 1998 Kazushi (Jam) Marukawa, All rights reserved.

Copyright (c) 1999 Mutsumi ISHIKAWA, All rights reserved.

Copyright (c) 1999 Nozomi YTOW, All rights reserved.

===Notice

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modifica-
tion, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

  1.   Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
      this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

  2.   Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
      documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND ANY
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DIS-
CLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND
ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

Notice===

6.9  Todd C. Miller

Copyright (c) 1998 Todd C. Miller <Todd.Miller@courtesan.com>

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any purpose
with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright
notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND TODD C. MILLER DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MER-
CHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL TODD C. MILLER BE LIABLE FOR ANY
SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER
RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CON-
TRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION
WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.

7.  BSD-style license with export notice

7.1  National Semiconductor Corporation Open Source License for Durango

(BSD License with Export Notice)

Copyright (c) 1999-2001

National Semiconductor Corporation.

All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modifica-
tion, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

   o Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
     this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

   o Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the doc-
     umentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

   o Neither the name of the National Semiconductor Corporation nor the names
     of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
     from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE NATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR CORPORATION OR
CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEM-
PLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT
OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CON-
TRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE, INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
INFRINGEMENT, OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFT-
WARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

EXPORT LAWS: THIS LICENSE ADDS NO RESTRICTIONS TO THE EXPORT LAWS OF YOUR
JURISDICTION. It is licensee's responsibility to comply with any export regu-
lations applicable in licensee's jurisdiction. Under CURRENT (2001) U.S.
export regulations this software is eligible for export from the U.S. and can
be downloaded by or otherwise exported or reexported worldwide EXCEPT to U.S.
embargoed destinations which include Cuba, Iraq, Libya, North Korea, Iran,
Syria, Sudan, Afghanistan and any other country to which the U.S.  has embar-
goed goods and services.

8.  NVIDIA Corp

Copyright (c) 1996 NVIDIA, Corp.  All rights reserved.

NOTICE TO USER: The source code is copyrighted under U.S. and international
laws.  NVIDIA, Corp. of Sunnyvale, California owns the copyright and as
design patents pending on the design and interface of the NV chips.  Users
and possessors of this source code are hereby granted a nonexclusive, roy-
alty-free copyright and design patent license to use this code in individual
and commercial software.

Any use of this source code must include, in the user documentation and
internal comments to the code, notices to the end user as follows:

Copyright (c) 1996 NVIDIA, Corp.  NVIDIA design patents pending in the U.S.
and foreign countries.

NVIDIA, CORP.  MAKES NO REPRESENTATION ABOUT THE SUITABILITY OF THIS SOURCE
CODE FOR ANY PURPOSE.  IT IS PROVIDED "AS IS" WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WAR-
RANTY OF ANY KIND.  NVIDIA, CORP. DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO
THIS SOURCE CODE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  IN NO EVENT SHALL NVIDIA, CORP.  BE LIABLE
FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR ANY DAM-
AGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN
CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOURCE CODE.

9.  SGI Free Software License B Version 1.1 (GLX)

Note: The definitive and binding form of this license is the form available
from SGI's web site at http://oss.sgi.com/projects/FreeB, and the source code
notices contained in the relevant source files.

1. Definitions.

1.1. "Additional Notice Provisions" means such additional provisions as
appear in the Notice in Original Code under the heading "Additional Notice
Provisions."

1.2. "Covered Code" means the Original Code or Modifications, or any combina-
tion thereof.

1.3. "Hardware" means any physical device that accepts input, processes
input, stores the results of processing, and/or provides output.

1.4. "Larger Work" means a work that combines Covered Code or portions
thereof with code not governed by the terms of this License.

1.5. "Licensable" means having the right to grant, to the maximum extent pos-
sible, whether at the time of the initial grant or subsequently acquired, any
and all of the rights covered herein.

1.6. "License" means this document.

1.7. "Licensed Patents" means patent claims Licensable by SGI that are
infringed by the use or sale of Original Code or any Modifications provided
by SGI, or any combination thereof.

1.8. "Modifications" means any addition to or deletion from the substance or
structure of either the Original Code or any previous Modifications.  When
Covered Code is released as a series of files, a Modification is:

     A. Any addition to the contents of a file containing Original code
     and/or addition to or deletion from the contents of a file contain-
     ing previous Modifications.

     B. Any new file that contains any part of the Original Code or pre-
     vious Modifications.

1.9. "Notice" means any notice in Original Code or Covered Code, as required
by and in compliance with this License.

1.10. "Original Code" means source code of computer software code that is
described in the source code Notice required by Exhibit A as Original Code,
and updates the error corrections specifically thereto.

1.11. "Recipient" means an individual or a legal entity exercising rights
under, and complying with all of the terms of, this License or a future ver-
sion of this License issued under Section 8.  For legal entities, "Recipient"
includes any entity that controls, is controlled by, or is under common con-
trol with Recipient.  For purposes of this definition, "control" of an entity
means (a) the power, direct or indirect, to direct or manage such entity, or
(b) ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the outstanding shares or
beneficial ownership of such entity.

1.12. "Recipient Patents" means patent claims Licensable by a Recipient that
are infringed by the use of sale of Original Code or any Modifications pro-
vided by SGI, or any combination thereof.

1.13. "SGI" means Silicon Graphics, Inc.

1.14. "SGI Patents" means patent claims Licensable by SGI other than the
Licenses Patents.

2. License Grant and Restrictions.

2.1. SGI License Grant.  Subject to the terms of this License and any third
party intellectual property claims, for the duration of intellectual property
protections inherent in the Original Code, SGI hereby grants Recipient a
worldwide, royalty-free, non-exclusive license, to do the following: (i)
under copyrights Licensable by SGI, to reproduce, distribute, create deriva-
tive works from, and, to the extent applicable, display and perform the Orig-
inal Code and/or any Modifications provided by SGI alone and/or as part of a
Larger Work; and (ii) under any Licensable Patents, to make, have made, use,
sell, offer for sale, import and/or otherwise transfer the Original Code
and/or any Modifications provided by SGI.  Recipient accepts the terms and
conditions of this License by undertaking any of the aforementioned actions.
The patent license shall apply to the Covered Code if, at the time any
related Modification is added, such addition of the Modification causes such
combination to be covered by the Licensed Patents.  The patent license in
Section 2.1(ii) shall not apply to any other combinations that include the
Modification.  No patent license is provided under SGI Patents for infringe-
ments of SGI Patents by Modifications not provided by SGI or combinations of
Original Code and Modifications not provided by SGI.

2.2. Recipient License Grant.  Subject to the terms of this License and any
third party intellectual property claims, Recipient hereby grants SGI and any
other Recipients a worldwide, royalty-free, non-exclusive license, under any
Recipient Patents, to make, have made, use, sell, offer for sale, import
and/or otherwise transfer the Original Code and/or any Modifications provided
by SGI.

2.3. No License for Hardware Implementations.  The licenses granted in Sec-
tion 2.1 and 2.2 are not applicable to implementation in Hardware of the
algorithms embodied in the Original Code or any Modifications provided by
SGI.

3. Redistributions

3.1. Retention of Notice/Copy of License.  The Notice set forth in Exhibit A,
below, must be conspicuously retained or included in any and all redistribu-
tions of Covered Code.  For distributions of the Covered Code in source form,
the Notice must appear in every file that can include a text comments field;
in executable form, the Notice and a copy of this License must appear in
related documentation or collateral where the Recipient's rights relating to
Covered Code are described.  Any Additional Notice Provisions which actually
appears in the Original Code must also be retained or included in any and all
redistributions of Covered Code.

3.2. Alternative License.  Provided that Recipient is in compliance with the
terms of this license, Recipient may, so long as without derogation of any of
SGI's rights in and to the Original Code, distribute the source code and/or
executable version(s) of Covered Code under (1) this License; (2) a license
identical to this License but for only such changes are necessary in order to
clarify Recipient's role as licensor of Modifications; and/or (3) a license
of the Recipient's choosing, containing terms different from this License,
provided that the license terms include this Section 3 and Sections 4, 6, 7,
10, 12, and 13, which terms may not be modified or superseded by any other
terms of such license.  If Recipient elects to use any license other than
this License, Recipient must make it absolutely clear that any of its terms
which differ from this License are offered by Recipient alone, and not by
SGI.  It is emphasized that this License is a limited license, and regardless
of the license form employed by Recipient in accordance with this Section
3.2, Recipient may relicense only such rights, in Original Code and Modifica-
tions by SGI, as it has actually been granted by SGI in this License.

3.3. Indemnity. Recipient hereby agrees to indemnify SGI for any liability
incurred by SGI as a result of any alternative license terms Recipient
offers.

4. Termination.  This License and the rights granted hereunder will terminate
automatically if Recipient breaches any term herein and fails to cure such
breach within 30 days thereof.  Any sublicense to the Covered Code that is
properly granted shall survive any termination of this License, absent termi-
nation by the terms of such sublicense.  Provisions that, but their nature,
must remain in effect beyond the termination of this License, shall survive.

5. No Trademark Or Other Rights.  This License does not grant any rights to:
(i) any software apart from the Covered Code, nor shall any other rights or
licenses not expressly granted hereunder arise by implication, estoppel or
otherwise with respect to the Covered Code; (ii) any trade name, trademark or
service mark whatsoever, including without limitation any related right for
purposes of endorsement or promotion of products derived from the Covered
Code, without prior written permission of SGI; or (iii) any title to or own-
ership of the Original Code, which shall at all times remain with SGI.  All
rights in the Original Code not expressly granted under this License are
reserved.

6. Compliance with Laws; Non-Infringement.  There are various worldwide laws,
regulations, and executive orders applicable to dispositions of Covered Code,
including without limitation export, re-export, and import control laws, reg-
ulations, and executive orders, of the U.S. government and other countries,
and Recipient is reminded it is obliged to obey such laws, regulations, and
executive orders.  Recipient may not distribute Covered Code that (i) in any
way infringes (directly or contributorily) any intellectual property rights
of any kind of any other person or entity of (ii) breaches any representation
or warranty, express, implied or statutory, to which under any applicable
law, it might be deemed to have been subject.

7. Claims of Infringement.  If Recipient learns of any third party claim that
any disposition of Covered Code and/or functionality wholly or partially
infringes the third party's intellectual property rights, Recipient will
promptly notify SGI of such claim.

8. Versions of the License. SGI may publish revised and/or new versions of
the License from time to time, each with a distinguishing version number.
Once Covered Code has been published under a particular version of the
License, Recipient may, for the duration of the license, continue to use it
under the terms of that version, or choose to use such Covered Code under the
terms of any subsequent version published bi SGI.  Subject to the provisions
of Sections 3 and 4 of this License, only SGI may modify the terms applicable
to Covered Code created under this License.

9. DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY.  COVERED CODE IS PROVIDED "AS IS." ALL EXPRESS AND
IMPLIED WARRANTIES AND CONDITIONS ARE DISCLAIMED, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITA-
TION, ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES AND CONDITIONS OF MERCHANTABILITY, SATISFACTORY
QUALITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND NON-INFRINGEMENT.  SGI ASSUMES
NO RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE SOFTWARE.  SHOULD THE SOFT-
WARE PROVE DEFECTIVE IN ANY RESPECT, SGI ASSUMES NO COST OR LIABILITY FOR
SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.  THIS DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY IS AN ESSENTIAL
PART OF THIS LICENSE.  N O USE OF ANY COVERED CODE IS AUTHORIZED HEREUNDER
EXCEPT SUBJECT TO THIS DISCLAIMER.

10. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.  UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES NOR LEGAL THEORY,
WHETHER TORT (INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, NEGLIGENCE OR STRICT LIABILITY),
CONTRACT, OR OTHERWISE, SHALL SGI OR ANY SGI LICENSOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY
DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY CHAR-
ACTER INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, DAMAGES FOR LOSS OF GOODWILL, WORK STOP-
PAGE, LOSS OF DATA, COMPUTER FAILURE OR MALFUNCTION, OR ANY AND ALL OTHER
COMMERCIAL DAMAGES OR LOSSES, EVEN IF SUCH PARTY SHALL HAVE BEEN INFORMED OF
THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.  THIS LIMITATION OF LIABILITY SHALL NOT
APPLY TO LIABILITY FOR DEATH OR PERSONAL INJURY RESULTING FROM SGI's NEGLI-
GENCE TO THE EXTENT APPLICABLE LAW PROHIBITS SUCH LIMITATION.  SOME JURISDIC-
TIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES, SO THAT EXCLUSION AND LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY TO RECIPIENT.

11. Indemnity.  Recipient shall be solely responsible for damages arising,
directly or indirectly, out of its utilization of rights under this License.
Recipient will defend, indemnify and hold harmless Silicon Graphics, Inc.
from and against any loss, liability, damages, costs or expenses (including
the payment of reasonable attorneys fees) arising out of Recipient's use,
modification, reproduction and distribution of the Covered Code or out of any
representation of warranty made by Recipient.

12. U.S. Government End Users.  The Covered Code is a "commercial item" con-
sisting of "commercial computer software" as such terms are defined in title
48 of the Code of Federal Regulations and all U.S.  Government End Users
acquire only the rights set forth in this License and are subject to the
terms of this License.

13. Miscellaneous.  This license represents the complete agreement concerning
the its subject matter.  If any provisions of this License is held to be
unenforceable, such provisions shall be reformed so as to achieve as nearly
as possible the same legal and economic effect as the original provision and
the remainder of this License will remain in effect.  This License shall be
governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the United States
and the State of California as applied to agreements entered into and to be
performed entirely within California between California residents.  Any liti-
gation relating to this License shall be subject to the exclusive jurisdic-
tion of the Federal Courts of the Northern District of California (or, absent
subject matter jurisdiction in such courts, the courts of the State of Cali-
fornia), with venue lying exclusively in Santa Clara County, California, and
with the losing party responsible for costs, including without limitation,
court costs and reasonable attorney fees and expenses.  The application of
the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of
Goods is expressly excluded.  Any law or regulation that provides that the
language of a contract shall be construed against the drafter shall not apply
to this License.

Exhibit A

License Applicability.  Except to the extent portions of this file are made
subject to an alternative license as permitted in the SGI Free Software
License B, Version 1.1 (the "License"), the contents of this file are subject
only to the provisions of the License. You may not use this file except in
compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at Silicon
Graphics, Inc., attn: Legal Services, 1600 Amphitheatre Parkway, Mountain
View, CA 94043-1351, or at:

http://oss.sgi.com/projects/FreeB

Note that, as provided in the License, the Software is distributed on an "AS
IS" basis, with ALL EXPRESS AND IMPLIED WARRANTIES AND CONDITIONS DISCLAIMED,
INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES AND CONDITIONS OF MER-
CHANTABILITY, SATISFACTORY QUALITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND
NON-INFRINGEMENT.

Original Code.  The Original Code is: OpenGL Sample Implementation, Version
1.2.1, released January 26, 2000, developed by Silicon Graphics, Inc. The
Original Code is Copyright (c) 1991-2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  Copyright in
any portions created by third parties is as indicated elsewhere herein. All
Rights Reserved.

Additional Notice Provisions:  The application programming interfaces estab-
lished by SGI in conjunction with the Original Code are The OpenGL(R) Graph-
ics System: A Specification (Version 1.2.1), released April 1, 1999; The
OpenGL(R) Graphics System Utility Library (Version 1.3), released November 4,
1998; and OpenGL(R) Graphics with the X Window System(R) (Version 1.3),
released October 19, 1998. This software was created using the OpenGL(R) ver-
sion 1.2.1 Sample Implementation published by SGI, but has not been indepen-
dently verified as being compliant with the OpenGL(R) version 1.2.1 Specifi-
cation.

10.  CID Font Code Public License

CID FONT CODE PUBLIC LICENSE (Version 1.0 (3/31/99))("License")

Subject to any applicable third party claims, Silicon Graphics, Inc. ("SGI")
hereby grants permission to Recipient (defined below), under SGI's copyrights
in the Original Software (defined below), to use, copy, modify, merge, pub-
lish, distribute, sublicense and/or sell copies of Subject Software (defined
below) in both source code and executable form, and to permit persons to whom
the Subject Software is furnished in accordance with this License to do the
same, subject to all of the following terms and conditions, which Recipient
accepts by engaging in any such use, copying, modifying, merging, publica-
tion, distributing, sublicensing or selling:

1. Definitions.

     a. "Original Software" means source code of computer software code
     that is described in Exhibit A as Original Software.

     b. "Modifications" means any addition to or deletion from the sub-
     stance or structure of either the Original Software or any previous
     Modifications. When Subject Software is released as a series of
     files, a Modification means (i) any addition to or deletion from
     the contents of a file containing Original Software or previous
     Modifications and (ii) any new file that contains any part of the
     Original Code or previous Modifications.

     c. "Subject Software" means the Original Software or Modifications
     or the combination of the Original Software and Modifications, or
     portions of any of the foregoing.

     d. "Recipient" means an individual or a legal entity exercising
     rights under the terms of this License. For legal entities, "Recip-
     ient" includes any entity that controls, is controlled by, or is
     under common control with Recipient. For purposes of this defini-
     tion, "control" of an entity means (i) the power, direct or indi-
     rect, to direct or manage such entity, or (ii) ownership of fifty
     percent (50%) or more of the outstanding shares or beneficial own-
     ership of such entity.

     e. "Required Notice" means the notice set forth in Exhibit A to
     this License.

     f. "Accompanying Technology" means any software or other technology
     that is not a Modification and that is distributed or made publicly
     available by Recipient with the Subject Software.  Separate soft-
     ware files that do not contain any Original Software or any previ-
     ous Modification shall not be deemed a Modification, even if such
     software files are aggregated as part of a product, or in any
     medium of storage, with any file that does contain Original Soft-
     ware or any previous Modification.

2. License Terms. All distribution of the Subject Software must be made sub-
ject to the terms of this License. A copy of this License and the Required
Notice must be included in any documentation for Subject Software where
Recipient's rights relating to Subject Software and/or any Accompanying Tech-
nology are described. Distributions of Subject Software in source code form
must also include the Required Notice in every file distributed. In addition,
a ReadMe file entitled "Important Legal Notice" must be distributed with each
distribution of one or more files that incorporate Subject Software. That
file must be included with distributions made in both source code and exe-
cutable form. A copy of the License and the Required Notice must be included
in that file.  Recipient may distribute Accompanying Technology under a
license of Recipient's choice, which may contain terms different from this
License, provided that (i) Recipient is in compliance with the terms of this
License, (ii) such other license terms do not modify or supersede the terms
of this License as applicable to the Subject Software, (iii) Recipient hereby
indemnifies SGI for any liability incurred by SGI as a result of the distri-
bution of Accompanying Technology or the use of other license terms.

3. Termination. This License and the rights granted hereunder will terminate
automatically if Recipient fails to comply with terms herein and fails to
cure such breach within 30 days of the breach. Any sublicense to the Subject
Software that is properly granted shall survive any termination of this
License absent termination by the terms of such sublicense. Provisions which,
by their nature, must remain in effect beyond the termination of this License
shall survive.

4. Trademark Rights. This License does not grant any rights to use any trade
name, trademark or service mark whatsoever. No trade name, trademark or ser-
vice mark of SGI may be used to endorse or promote products derived from or
incorporating any Subject Software without prior written permission of SGI.

5. No Other Rights. No rights or licenses not expressly granted hereunder
shall arise by implication, estoppel or otherwise. Title to and ownership of
the Original Software at all times remains with SGI. All rights in the Origi-
nal Software not expressly granted under this License are reserved.

6. Compliance with Laws; Non-Infringement. Recipient shall comply with all
applicable laws and regulations in connection with use and distribution of
the Subject Software, including but not limited to, all export and import
control laws and regulations of the U.S. government and other countries.
Recipient may not distribute Subject Software that (i) in any way infringes
(directly or contributorily) the rights (including patent, copyright, trade
secret, trademark or other intellectual property rights of any kind) of any
other person or entity, or (ii) breaches any representation or warranty,
express, implied or statutory, which under any applicable law it might be
deemed to have been distributed.

7. Claims of Infringement. If Recipient at any time has knowledge of any one
or more third party claims that reproduction, modification, use, distribu-
tion, import or sale of Subject Software (including particular functionality
or code incorporated in Subject Software) infringes the third party's intel-
lectual property rights, Recipient must place in a well-identified web page
bearing the title "LEGAL" a description of each such claim and a description
of the party making each such claim in sufficient detail that a user of the
Subject Software will know whom to contact regarding the claim. Also, upon
gaining such knowledge of any such claim, Recipient must conspicuously
include the URL for such web page in the Required Notice, and in the text of
any related documentation, license agreement or collateral in which Recipient
describes end user's rights relating to the Subject Software. If Recipient
obtains such knowledge after it makes Subject Software available to any other
person or entity, Recipient shall take other steps (such as notifying appro-
priate mailing lists or newsgroups) reasonably calculated to provide such
knowledge to those who received the Subject Software.

8. DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY. SUBJECT SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ON AN "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, WITHOUT
LIMITATION, WARRANTIES THAT THE SUBJECT SOFTWARE IS FREE OF DEFECTS, MER-
CHANTABLE, FIT FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGING. SGI ASSUMES NO
RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE SOFTWARE. SHOULD ANY SOFTWARE
PROVE DEFECTIVE IN ANY RESPECT, SGI ASSUMES NO COST OR LIABILITY FOR ANY SER-
VICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.  THIS DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY CONSTITUTES AN
ESSENTIAL PART OF THIS LICENSE. NO USE OF ANY SUBJECT SOFTWARE IS AUTHORIZED
HEREUNDER EXCEPT UNDER THIS DISCLAIMER.

9. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY. UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES AND UNDER NO LEGAL THEORY,
WHETHER TORT (INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, NEGLIGENCE OR STRICT LIABILITY),
CONTRACT, OR OTHERWISE, SHALL SGI OR ANY SGI LICENSOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR
OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SUBJECT SOFTWARE OR
THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SUBJECT SOFTWARE. SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT
ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF CERTAIN DAMAGES, SO THIS EXCLUSION AND
LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY TO RECIPIENT TO THE EXTENT SO DISALLOWED.

10. Indemnity. Recipient shall be solely responsible for damages arising,
directly or indirectly, out of its utilization of rights under this License.
Recipient will defend, indemnify and hold SGI and its successors and assigns
harmless from and against any loss, liability, damages, costs or expenses
(including the payment of reasonable attorneys fees) arising out of (Recipi-
ent's use, modification, reproduction and distribution of the Subject Soft-
ware or out of any representation or warranty made by Recipient.

11. U.S. Government End Users. The Subject Software is a "commercial item"
consisting of "commercial computer software" as such terms are defined in
title 48 of the Code of Federal Regulations and all U.S. Government End Users
acquire only the rights set forth in this License and are subject to the
terms of this License.

12. Miscellaneous. This License represents the complete agreement concerning
subject matter hereof. If any provision of this License is held to be unen-
forceable by any judicial or administrative authority having proper jurisdic-
tion with respect thereto, such provision shall be reformed so as to achieve
as nearly as possible the same economic effect as the original provision and
the remainder of this License will remain in effect. This License shall be
governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the United States
and the State of California as applied to agreements entered into and to be
performed entirely within California between California residents. Any liti-
gation relating to this License shall be subject to the exclusive jurisdic-
tion of the Federal Courts of the Northern District of California (or, absent
subject matter jurisdiction in such courts, the courts of the State of Cali-
fornia), with venue lying exclusively in Santa Clara County, California, with
the losing party responsible for costs, including without limitation, court
costs and reasonable attorneys fees and expenses. The application of the
United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods is
expressly excluded. Any law or regulation that provides that the language of
a contract shall be construed against the drafter shall not apply to this
License.

Exhibit A

Copyright (c) 1994-1999 Silicon Graphics, Inc.

The contents of this file are subject to the CID Font Code Public License
Version 1.0 (the "License"). You may not use this file except in compliance
with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at Silicon Graphics,
Inc., attn: Legal Services, 2011 N. Shoreline Blvd., Mountain View, CA 94043
or at http://www.sgi.com/software/opensource/cid/license.html

Software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" basis.
ALL WARRANTIES ARE DISCLAIMED, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, OF FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR OF NON-
INFRINGEMENT. See the License for the specific language governing rights and
limitations under the License.

The Original Software (as defined in the License) is CID font code that was
developed by Silicon Graphics, Inc. Those portions of the Subject Software
(as defined in the License) that were created by Silicon Graphics, Inc. are
Copyright (c) 1994-1999 Silicon Graphics, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

[NOTE: When using this text in connection with Subject Software delivered
solely in object code form, Recipient may replace the words "this file" with
"this software" in both the first and second sentences.]

11.  Bigelow & Holmes Inc and URW++ GmbH Luxi font license

Luxi fonts copyright (c) 2001 by Bigelow & Holmes Inc. Luxi font instruction
code copyright (c) 2001 by URW++ GmbH. All Rights Reserved. Luxi is a regis-
tered trademark of Bigelow & Holmes Inc.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of these Fonts and associated documentation files (the "Font Software"), to
deal in the Font Software, including without limitation the rights to use,
copy, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Font
Software, and to permit persons to whom the Font Software is furnished to do
so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright and trademark notices and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies of one or more of the Font Software.

The Font Software may not be modified, altered, or added to, and in particu-
lar the designs of glyphs or characters in the Fonts may not be modified nor
may additional glyphs or characters be added to the Fonts. This License
becomes null and void when the Fonts or Font Software have been modified.

THE FONT SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT OF COPYRIGHT, PATENT,
TRADEMARK, OR OTHER RIGHT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL BIGELOW & HOLMES INC. OR URW++
GMBH. BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, INCLUDING ANY GEN-
ERAL, SPECIAL, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, WHETHER IN AN
ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF THE USE OR
INABILITY TO USE THE FONT SOFTWARE OR FROM OTHER DEALINGS IN THE FONT SOFT-
WARE.

Except as contained in this notice, the names of Bigelow & Holmes Inc. and
URW++ GmbH. shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the
sale, use or other dealings in this Font Software without prior written
authorization from Bigelow & Holmes Inc. and URW++ GmbH.

For further information, contact:

info@urwpp.de or design@bigelowandholmes.com

12.  FreeType License

0. Definitions

Throughout this license, the terms `package', `FreeType Project', and
`FreeType  archive' refer  to  the  set  of files  originally distributed by
the authors (David Turner, Robert Wilhelm, and Werner Lemberg) as the
`FreeType Project', be they named as alpha, beta or final release.

`You' refers to the licensee, or person using the project, where `using' is a
generic term including compiling the project's source code as well as linking
it to form a `program' or `executable'.  This program is referred to as `a
program using the FreeType engine'.

This license applies to all files distributed in the original FreeType
Project, including all source code, binaries and documentation, unless other-
wise stated in the file in its original, unmodified form as distributed in
the original archive.  If you are unsure whether or not a particular file is
covered by this license, you must contact us to verify this.

The FreeType Project is copyright (C) 1996-2000 by David Turner, Robert Wil-
helm, and Werner Lemberg.  All rights reserved except as specified below.

1. No Warranty

THE FREETYPE PROJECT IS PROVIDED `AS IS' WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, WARRANTIES OF MER-
CHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  IN NO EVENT WILL ANY OF
THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES CAUSED BY THE USE
OR THE INABILITY TO USE, OF THE FREETYPE PROJECT.

2. Redistribution

This license grants a worldwide, royalty-free, perpetual and irrevocable
right and license to use, execute, perform, compile, display, copy, create
derivative works of, distribute and sublicense the FreeType Project (in both
source and object code forms) and derivative works thereof for any purpose;
and to authorize others to exercise some or all of the rights granted herein,
subject to the following conditions:

   o Redistribution of source code must retain the license file (`FTL.TXT')
     unaltered; any additions, deletions or changes to the original files
     must be clearly indicated in accompanying documentation.  The copyright
     notices of the unaltered, original files must be preserved in all copies
     of source files.

   o Redistribution in binary form must provide a disclaimer that states that
     the software is based in part of the work of the FreeType Team, in the
     distribution documentation.  We also encourage you to put an URL to the
     FreeType web page in your documentation, though this isn't mandatory.

These conditions apply to any software derived from or based on the FreeType
Project, not just the unmodified files.  If you use our work, you must
acknowledge us.  However, no fee need be paid to us.

3. Advertising

Neither the FreeType authors and contributors nor you shall use the name of
the other for commercial, advertising, or promotional purposes without spe-
cific prior written permission.

We suggest, but do not require, that you use one or more of the following
phrases to refer to this software in your documentation or advertising mate-
rials: `FreeType Project', `FreeType Engine', `FreeType library', or
`FreeType Distribution'.

As you have not signed this license, you are not required to accept it.  How-
ever, as the FreeType Project is copyrighted material, only this license, or
another one contracted with the authors, grants you the right to use, dis-
tribute, and modify it.  Therefore, by using, distributing, or modifying the
FreeType Project, you indicate that you understand and accept all the terms
of this license.

4. Contacts

There are two mailing lists related to FreeType:

   o freetype@freetype.org

     Discusses general use and applications of FreeType, as well as future
     and  wanted additions to the  library and distribution.  If  you are
     looking  for support,  start in  this list  if you haven't found any-
     thing to help you in the documentation.

   o devel@freetype.org

     Discusses bugs,  as well  as engine internals,  design issues, specific
     licenses, porting, etc.

   o http://www.freetype.org

     Holds the current  FreeType web page, which will  allow you to download
     our  latest  development  version  and  read  online documentation.

You can also contact us individually at:

David Turner <david.turner@freetype.org>

Robert Wilhelm <robert.wilhelm@freetype.org>

Werner Lemberg <werner.lemberg@freetype.org>

13.  Bitstream Vera Fonts Copyright

Copyright (c) 2003 by Bitstream, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Bitstream

Vera is a trademark of Bitstream, Inc.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of the fonts accompanying this license ("Fonts") and associated documentation
files (the "Font Software"), to reproduce and distribute the Font Software,
including without limitation the rights to use, copy, merge, publish, dis-
tribute, and/or sell copies of the Font Software, and to permit persons to
whom the Font Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following condi-
tions:

The above copyright and trademark notices and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies of one or more of the Font Software typefaces.

The Font Software may be modified, altered, or added to, and in particular
the designs of glyphs or characters in the Fonts may be modified and addi-
tional glyphs or characters may be added to the Fonts, only if the fonts are
renamed to names not containing either the words "Bitstream" or the word
"Vera".

This License becomes null and void to the extent applicable to Fonts or Font
Software that has been modified and is distributed under the "Bitstream Vera"
names.

The Font Software may be sold as part of a larger software package but no
copy of one or more of the Font Software typefaces may be sold by itself.

THE FONT SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT OF COPYRIGHT, PATENT,
TRADEMARK, OR OTHER RIGHT. IN NO EVENT SHALL BITSTREAM OR THE GNOME FOUNDA-
TION BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, INCLUDING ANY GEN-
ERAL, SPECIAL, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, WHETHER IN AN
ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF THE USE OR
INABILITY TO USE THE FONT SOFTWARE OR FROM OTHER DEALINGS IN THE FONT SOFT-
WARE.

Except as contained in this notice, the names of Gnome, the Gnome Foundation,
and Bitstream Inc., shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote
the sale, use or other dealings in this Font Software without prior written
authorization from the Gnome Foundation or Bitstream Inc., respectively. For
further information, contact: fonts at gnome dot org.

     Generated from XFree86: xc/programs/Xserver/hw/xfree86/doc/sgml/LICENSE.sgml,v 1.32 dawes Exp $


$XFree86: xc/programs/Xserver/hw/xfree86/doc/LICENSE,v 1.33 2004/02/24 03:49:41 dawes Exp $
